# CS255-System-Analysis-and-Design-2025
This course focused on the project management side of software design. The course focused around a project for an imaginary company called DriverPass. This company focused on helping driving students learn and pass their driving exams by creating a hub of resources, 
providing classes, practice tests, and live driving practice with driving instructors. They wanted a system created that allowed a student to do all of these things through a web-based app or website which I had to create the project management for the system. Throughout 
the class, I was tasked with making various types of UML diagrams, for different audiences, to show how well I could present this idea and provide proper communication to get the software developement done. I think I created my diagrams very well. I had to create class,
sequence, and activity diagram, as well as a diagram that showed how the system was supposed to work. I'm a very visual learner, so I think that the diagrams provided a very easy and clear avenue for me to show my thought process and hone in on what I wanted to represent
about the DriverPass system. I think I could have definitely improved on my writing skills in terms of describing my thoughts. There were plenty of times where we had to describe the purpose of different diagrams or different project management methods, but I have trouble
articulating my thoughts. I'm able to get the main idea onto paper, but I tend to get lost when diving into the details. Fortunately, interpreting the user needs for the project was easy. The interview document made the user's and the clients needs very clear. After reading
the interview diagram, I was able to just incorporate those needs into the system. For example, they wanted the students to be able to take practice tests and schedule appointments with driving instructors, so I implemented a way that the software developers would be able 
to add those functions to the system. I also added extra steps to allow for efficiency. For example, DriverPass offered different levels of learning packages that the student had to be subcribed to if they wanted access to the practice tests, courses, and driving 
instructors. So I added a step when the student chooses to take a practice test, the system would verify that they have a learning package. If they did not have one, it would automatically take them to the package purchasing page, rather than just displaying an error
message. It's important to consider the user's needs because in the end, the user is the person that will actually be USING the system. If the system is not intuitive, looks clunky, or does not do what it is supposed to do, then the user will not use it. So it's extremely
important to take the user's needs into account to make sure that you actually have a continuably usable product. My approach to software design is kind of to work backwards. I look at what the main task is, get the software to do that task, and then work in the additional
tasks as necessary. For instance, the DriverPass system wants the student to be able to schedule driving lessons with the instructors. I would start with making software that provided the ability to schedule the lesson on a given date. After completing that task, I would 
work in how the system would choose a driving instructor, then how it would choose what car is being driven, then I would add in the fail-safes of not allowing sheduling if drivers and cars were not available. This way, the most important task gets completed first, and all 
of the additional tasks come second. This also allows me to make the program modular and easy to edit in the future. To analyze or design a system in the future, I plan to do the same process that I have been. Carefully take the client's and user's needs into account and 
then work backwards when creating the program itself. The only difference is that I think I will make many more diagrams in the future because it really helped me get my thoughts together in a way that was easy for me to come back to and understand.
